There's a more complicated example.
If we had an access list it's existence one permit 10 1 1 0 and the mosque is 0 0 0 15.
What we're saying is the more the last four bits of the last octet.
So notice the address is 10 1 1 0.
And the mosque is 0 0 0 15.
Now the first three octets are fairly easy to work out.
What we are saying is that the first octet must be 10.
The second octet must be one.
The third octet must be one.
But it gets a little bit more complicated.
Looking at the last octet in decimal it's a lot easier if you convert it to binary for binary zeros
followed by 4 binary ones 0 and binary equals 8 binary zeros.
Once again the gap in the middle in these octets is just for readability so that it's easier to see
what's going on.
So what we are saying is that the last four bits in a address can be set to anything.
Some of the words these last four binary births could be set to either a 0 or a 1.
But the first four binary bits must be equal to zero because the address portion has a 0 in it and the
first four bits of the mosque are set to zero.
It means that the first four bits of an address must be equal to this value.
In other words zero.
So let's show you some examples.
If I had an address of 10 one that wanted one would it be matched by this statement permit 10 1 1 0
0 0 0 15.
And the answer would be yes.
I've only converted the last octet into binary as the first three octets so easy to work out what are
you saying is that the first three octets must be equal to 10 1 1 1 which it is for this address but
the last octet converted to binary will look as follows.
We would have 7 binary zeros followed by binary 1 15 in binary once again is four binary zeros followed
by four binary ones.
So what we are saying is notice the first four bits and the address must because of the zeros in the
mosque being equal to 0 0 0 0 which for one is true.
The first four bits are set to zeros.
It doesn't matter what the last four bits are city because we have binary ones in the mosque.
So there is a match on 10 1 1 1.
But does this access statement match 10 1 1 1:29.
And the answer is No.
Because in the first four bits of the address it must be equal to four binary zeros.
And if you convert 1:29 into binary it consists of 1 Henri 1 followed by six binary zeros followed by
binary 1.
In other words the first four binary bits do not equal four zeros.
So this is not a match.
In this example we have some hosts on subnet 10 1 1 0.
So as an example this PC and this MacBook we also have servers server one with IP address 10 1 to 1
and server 2 with IP address 10 1 3 1.
In this example we want to permit host 10 1 1 1 access to the servers but deny everyone else.
Please note these examples are just to help teach you the syntax of access lists and how they can be
used in various scenarios.
These examples are not based practice so please don't try to understand the why of these examples.
They just yet try and help you understand how list can be applied obviously in the real world and in
exam situations you might be presented with various scenarios and in those cases you will need to know
how X-ists lists work to be able to meet the requirements of the cinerea.
The first decision you need to make is on which interface are you going to apply the access list.
In this example we are going to use a standard IP access list.
We're not going to use extended access lists so it makes sense to apply the access list inbound in this
interface because that will accomplish what we set out to do.
You could also apply the access list on both if 0 1 and 0 2.
But it would be more efficient to apply inbound rather than outbound.
It also means that you only have to apply the access list on one interface rather than on two interfaces.
So I'm Narada I could configure the access list but before doing that I'm going to type the command
show access lists just to see which access lists have already been configured so that I don't advertently
edit an access list that already exists in this example you can see that there are no X-ists lists so
I can go into global config mode and top topic C'mon exis list and then specify a number.
And let's say in this example we have to use a standard IP access lists so I'm going to just choose
a number let's say one and then I'm going to say permit
host 10 dog wandered wandered 1 and hit enter.
Also Noria states that we need to permit this host access to the servers.
Now stented IP access list does not allow you to specify destinations.
You can only specify the source.
Now it's worth remembering the implicit deny any at the end of every IP access list.
Our criteria in this example is just to permit that specific host table 1 1 1 and deny everyone else.
So this single line access list will accomplish what we set out to do.
The next step is to bind the Xs list on an interface so an interface if 0 0 I top the common IP access
group and notice it prompts me to put in the number or word of the access list so one and then it prompts
me to specify the direction and I'm going to say inbound that just by doing that I've accomplished what
I set out to do.
We are permitting this host 10 1 1 1 and denying every one else.
You obviously need to be careful with access lists because if another interface were configured on the
router no traffic except for this host would be allowed to send traffic through interface if seriously
zero.
But in this scenario we have met the requirements.
One last thing to show you is it find top the C'mon show the interface and the relevant interface the
Rato will show me which X-ists list is bound outbound and which access list is bound inbound on the
specific interface.
And as you can see here access list one is bound inbound and no access list is bound outbound.
So as an example I could create another access list let's say access list to permit any and then go
into that interface and talk IP access group.
Two out
do the same show command again show the interface if 0 is flesh 0 and you'll be able to see that access
list is bound outbound an excess Exorcist one is bound inbound.
If I made the following mistake and bound access list to inbound rather than outbound
the following would take place.
The router does not warn me about anything but notice the inbound access list has been replaced with
access list too.
So the previous access this one was removed off the interface and replaced with access list too.
There is no need to firstly remove the old actis list before applying the new access list.
The old one is implicitly removed and the new one is applied.
Also notice that you can apply the same access list in and out at the same time.